A                                                 Ad V S O ry
U.S. Department
of Transportation


Federal Aviation                                  Circular
                                                        ||




Subject: Maintenance Review Boards,               Date: 5/31/24             AC No: 121-22D
          Maintenance Type Boards, and            Initiated by: AFS-100     Change:
          Original Equipment
          Manufacturer/Type Certificate
          Holder Recommended Maintenance
          Procedures


      PURPOSE OF THIS ADVISORY CIRCULAR (AC). This AC provides information
      that industry may use to develop and revise the minimum scheduled maintenance
      tasking/interval requirements for derivative or newly type-certificated aircraft and
      powerplants for Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) approval.


1.1   Application. This AC refers to these minimum scheduled maintenance tasking/interval
      requirements as the Maintenance Review Board Report (MRBR), the Maintenance Type
      Board Report (MTBR), or the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM)/Type Certificate
      Holder (TCH) Recommended Maintenance Procedures. After FAA approval, the
      requirements become a basis upon which operators develop their own individual
      maintenance programs. The final document (MRBR, MTBR, or OEM/TCH procedures)
      requirements will become a dynamic report for each OEM/TCH (1.e., a document subject
      to periodic revision based on new or changed analysis or requirements).


1.2   Regulatory Scope. The contents of this document do not have the force and effect of law
      and are not meant to bind the public in any way, and the document is intended only to
      provide information to the public regarding existing requirements under the law or
      agency policies. The material in this AC is primarily designed to provide guidance for the
      standardized development, implementation, and update of FAA-approved minimum
      scheduled maintenance tasking/interval requirements, and it describes an acceptable
      means, but not the only means, of showing compliance with the applicable regulations.
      Since the method of compliance that is presented in this AC is not mandatory, the term
      “should” applies only if you choose to follow this particular method. The FAA’s only
      limitation is that if you choose to deviate from the methods and practices in this AC, or
      use an alternate method acceptable to the FAA, you may not refer to your program as a
      Maintenance Review Board (MRB)/Maintenance Type Board (MTB).


      AUDIENCE. The audience for this AC is FAA personnel, air operators, air carriers, and
      OEM/TCHs and their vendors who are involved in the development of maintenance
      tasking requirements.


      WHERE YOU CAN FIND THIS AC. You can find this AC on the FAA’s website at
      https://www.faa.gov/regulations_policies/advisory_circulars and the Dynamic Regulatory
      System (DRS) at https://drs.faa.gov.
5/31/24                                                                                AC 121-22D



   4   WHAT THIS AC CANCELS. This AC cancels AC 121-22C, Maintenance Review
       Boards, Maintenance Type Boards, and OEM/TCH Recommended Maintenance
       Procedures, dated August 27, 2012.

       RELATED 14 CFR PARTS. Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations (14 CFR)



       RELATED READING MATERIAL (current editions). See paragraphs 6.1 through
          6.3 below for documents related to this AC.

 6.1   FAA Orders. The following FAA orders are related to this AC and can be located on the
       FAA’s website at https://www.faa.gov/regulations policies/orders notices and on DRS:


          e   Order 8110.4, Type Certification.

          e   Order 8110.52, Type Validation and Post-type Validation Procedures.

          e   Order 8110.54, Instructions for Continued Airworthiness Responsibilities,
              Requirements, and Contents.

          e   Order 8430.21, Flight Standards Division, Aircraft Certification Division, and
              Aircraft Evaluation Group Responsibilities.

          e   Order 8900.1, Volume 8, Chapter 2, Section 7, Maintenance Review Boards.

          e   Order 8900.1, Volume 19, Chapter 1, Section 1, General.

       Note: In the previous version of this AC, there were numerous instructions to
       FAA personnel. Now, the FAA internal instructions regarding the MRB/MTB
       process have been moved to Order 8900.1, Flight Standards Information
       Management System (specifically, Volume 8, Chapter 2, Section 7).


 6.2      FAA Advisory Circulars (AC). The following ACs are related to the guidance provided
          in this AC and can be located on the FAA’s website at https://www.faa.gov/regulations p
          olicies/advisory_circulars and on DRS:


          e   AC 20-107, Composite Aircraft Structure.

          e   AC 20-136, Aircraft Electrical and Electronic System Lightning Protection.

          e   AC 20-158, The Certification of Aircraft Electrical and Electronic Systems for
              Operation in the High-Intensity Radiated Fields (HIRF) Environment.

          e   AC 23.1309-1, System Safety Analysis and Assessment for Part 23 Airplanes.

          e   AC 25.1309-1, System Design and Analysis.

          e   AC 25-19, Certification Maintenance Requirements.

          e   AC 25-27, Development of Transport Category Airplane Electrical Wiring
              Interconnection Systems Instructions for Continued Airworthiness Using and
              Enhanced Zonal Analysis Procedure.
5/31/24                                                                                 AC 121-22D



          e   AC 27-1, Certification of Normal Category Rotorcraft.

          e   AC 29-2, Certification of Transport Category Rotorcraft.

          e   AC 33.4-3, Instructions for Continued Airworthiness: Aircraft Engine High Intensity
              Radiated Fields (HIRF) and Lightning Protection Features.

          e   AC 120-42, Extended Operations (ETOPS and Polar Operations).


 6.3      Other Technical Documents. The following technical documents provide additional
          information related to this AC:


          e   International MRB/MTB Process Standard (IMPS), available on the International
              Maintenance Review Board Policy Board (IMRBPB) web page at
              https://www.easa.europa.eu/en/domains/aircraft-products/international-maintenance-
              review-board-policy-board-IMRBPB.

          e   European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) CM-MRB-001, Maintenance
              Review Board Report/Maintenance Type Board Report Development Process,
              available on the EASA website at https://www.easa.ecuropa.eu/en/document-
              library/product-certification-consultations/easa-cm-mrb-001.

          e   Transport Canada, Scheduled Maintenance Instruction Development Process
              Manual — TP 13850, available on the Transport Canada Civil Aviation (TCCA)
              website at https://tc.canada.ca/en/aviation/publications/scheduled-maintenance-
              instruction-development-process-manual-tp- 13850.

          e   Airlines for America (A4A) (formerly Air Transport Association of America (ATA))
              MSG-3, Operator/Manufacturer Scheduled Maintenance Development, available on
              the A4A website at https://airlines.org.


       INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS. The FAA entered into bilateral agreements with
          certain foreign Civil Aviation Authorities (CAA) whereby the FAA may be the
          Certifying Authority (CA), U.S. State of Design, or the Validating Authority (VA)
          foreign State of Design. These agreements may allow the CA to approve the MRB/MTB
          on behalf of the VA. The MRB Chairperson should be familiar with the bilateral
          implementation procedures to understand their role in the MRB/MTB process.


 7.1   Applicability. This AC fulfills the FAA’s international agreement to implement the
          guidance of the IMPS, which was agreed to by the FAA along with the aviation
       regulatory bodies of Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, the European Union, Hong Kong,
       Japan, Singapore, and United Arab Emirates.


 7.2   Implementation. All FAA MRB/MTB activities will be conducted in compliance with
       the IMPS, except where FAA-specific guidance deviates from the IMPS. Aircraft
       Evaluation Division (AED) inspectors assigned to the validation of a foreign type
          certificate (TC) should use the letter of confirmation discussed in the IMPS to ensure the
          differences and additions discussed in this AC are addressed.
5/31/24                                                                                  AC 121-22D



       MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS. The process of generating
       maintenance and inspection requirements for a new aircraft is an extensive and complex
       undertaking. When the MRB/MTB process is used, there are three important
          contributors:


          1.   The OEM/TCH, with their knowledge of the aircraft design;

       2.      The operators and members of industry, with their knowledge of operations and
               maintenance; and

          3.   The regulators, with their understanding of the regulatory system in which the aircraft
               will be operating.


       Note: The MRB process should, at all times, strive to include all three points of
       view.


 8.1      General Process. While the entire effort is commonly referred to as “the MRB process”
          or “the MSG-3 process” interchangeably, an MRB formally consists of only FAA
       personnel. This board interacts with the aircraft OEM/TCH and industry through the
       methods described in the ATA Maintenance Steering Group — 3 (MSG-3) Report,
          “Operator/Manufacturer Scheduled Maintenance Development.” The resulting report
          (MRBR or MTBR) is produced and owned by the OEM/TCH, accepted by the Industry
          Steering Committee (ISC), and approved by the      FAA.


 8.2   Development of Maintenance Programs. Operators will use an MRBR, MTBR, or
          OEM/TCH requirements document as a basis for developing and designing a
       maintenance program and submit it to the local regulatory authority for approval. That
          approval process becomes more complex if the MRBR or MTBR does not conform to a
       known standard. Therefore, to generate an MRBR, MTBR, or OEM/TCH requirements
          document using the methods described in this AC, the methods described should be
          followed unless a deviation is made that meets the following criteria:

          1.   Consistent with regulations and other policy (e.g., Order 8900.1, IMPS, and MSG-3);

       2.      Agreed to by all parties (including the FAA); and

          3.   Documented in the program’s Policy and Procedures Handbook (PPH), or similar
               documents.


 8.3   Deviation. If the OEM/TCH deviates from the methods described in paragraph 8.2 of this
       AC, the operator’s maintenance program may meet the requirements for FAA approval of
       the scheduled maintenance requirements of the instructions for continued airworthiness
          (ICA) as the basis for an operator’s maintenance program. However, the program should
       not be referred to as an MRB or MTB.


 8.4   Maintenance Type Board (MTB). The MTB process is typically considered an
          appropriate choice for smaller/less complex aircraft where operator participation is
          difficult to obtain. An MTB process should follow the same guidance as an MRB.
       Likewise, wherever “MRB” appears throughout this AC, the same requirements listed for
5/31/24                                                                                     AC 121-22D



          an MRB should also apply to an MTB, unless there is specific MTB guidance applicable
       to the subject.


          FAA ICA REQUIREMENT. Part 21, § 21.50 requires that the OEM/TCH “must
          furnish at least one set of complete Instructions for Continued Airworthiness to the owner
          of each type aircraft, aircraft engine, or propeller upon its delivery, or upon issuance of
       the first standard airworthiness certificate for the affected aircraft, whichever occurs
          later.” This includes a complete maintenance program for the full planned life of the
          aircraft, as well as specifications for inspections and instructions for the completion of
       tasks (refer to the appendix of the appropriate certification rule for specifics).


 9.1   MRBR Approval. The OEM/TCH may use the MRBR to comply with ICA maintenance
       program requirements. Therefore, the FAA requires that the MRBR (and all task
          instructions required to complete MRBR tasks) be completed and approved no later than
       the time of the first aircraft delivery, as either the MRBR is part of the ICA or constitutes
          supporting material to meet the requirements of § 21.50.


 9.2      FAA as the VA. Foreign CAAs may not have the same regulatory requirement that
       would comply with § 21.50. This may lead to a situation (when the FAA is the VA for a
       program) where the CA may not require the MRBR to be complete prior to the first
          delivery. The FAA cannot grant a U.S. TC for an aircraft that does not have a complete
          set of ICA available at the time of the first delivery (under the U.S. TC). The MRB
          Chairperson should be cognizant of this fact and ensure that the MRBR is complete at the
       time of FAA validation.


  10   VALIDATION AND VERIFICATION OF MRB-RELATED MAINTENANCE
          TASKS. Refer to the IMPS, Chapter 3, General Application Rules; and Order 8110.4.


10.1   MRBR Task Validation. Task validation is the responsibility of the OEM/TCH. The
          OEM/TCH should develop internal instructions and guidelines to enable the validation of
          all maintenance procedures written to support MRBR tasks. The objective of the
       validation is to ensure that the procedure can be performed as written and that the
       procedure meets the intent of the MRBR task.


10.2   Verification. Verification of the OEM/TCH task validation process is the responsibility
          of the FAA as the CA. The OEM/TCH should demonstrate to the FAA that Failure Effect
          Categories (FEC) 5 and 8 safety tasks can be adequately performed, and that the
       procedure meets the intent of the MRBR task. At minimum, the OEM/TCH should make
          available the completed aircraft and the necessary qualified maintenance personnel where
          and when requested by the FAA. Additional tasks may be verified at the FAA’s
          discretion. As the VA, the FAA can request to perform MRBR task validations. The task
       validation activity needs to be coordinated and agreed upon through the validation work
       plan in accordance with Order 8110.52.


10.3   ICA Validation. If an ICA validation process is performed under Order 8110.4 (or
          equivalent), that process may be used to comply with the contents of paragraph 10, even
          if it occurs after the approval of the initial MRBR. If the ICA validation process uncovers
5/31/24                                                                                 AC 121-22D



       problems with the MRBR tasks, that information would then be relayed (internally within
       the FAA) to the MRB Chairperson, and changes to the MRBR may be required prior to
       the original or first revision of the MRBR.


  11      CANDIDATE CERTIFICATION MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS (CCMR).
       Refer to the IMPS, Chapter 4, Maintenance Review Board (MRB) Process Specification;
          and AC 25-19.


11.1      CCMR Development. CCMRs are a part of the certification process and are based on
       underlying engineering System Safety Assessments (SSA) that establish when the
          degradation of a system becomes an unacceptable safety risk. Some of these become
          Certification Maintenance Requirements and are listed in the product’s Airworthiness
       Limitations Section (ALS). Other CCMRs may be satisfied by the completion of an
          equivalent MRBR task.

11.2      FEC 5 and 8 Tasks. The FAA’s policy for handling CCMRs is published in AC 25-19.
          To ensure that CCMRs are handled with the appropriate level of importance, and to
       reflect the underlying SSA, only FEC 5 or 8 tasks may be considered for satisfying
          CCMRs. FEC 5 and 8 tasks cannot be deleted from the operator’s maintenance program.
       Additionally, any imported product that does not comply with the process contained in
       AC 25-19 will not be deemed suitable for use in the United States.

  12   FAA MAINTENANCE REVIEW BOARD POLICY BOARD (MRBPB). The
       MRBPB advocates the standardization of MRB policy and procedures and provides a
          structured forum for discussions leading to the development of national and international
       recommendations regarding all MRB activities. The MRBPB develops AED positions for
          standardized guidance on issues that arise from the MRB or MSG-3 process. Continued
          development of standardized MRB policies, procedures, and guidance promotes
       harmonization within the respective AED offices and participating industry groups.


12.1   MRBPB Membership. Membership of the MRBPB includes an AED representative
          from each branch that is selected by each branch manager, including a member from the
       AED Standards and Policy Branch who will act as a facilitator. An individual from the
       AED will be selected to act as the chairperson. The Aircraft Maintenance Division may
       be requested as a resource as needed. Furthermore, a representative from the Aircraft
          Certification Service (AIR) will act as a liaison for certification issues.


12.2   Meeting Frequency. The MRBPB normally meets at least twice a year, with one
       meeting prior to the IMRBPB meeting. Additional meetings may be held as required.


12.3      Purpose. The MRBPB develops harmonized issue papers (IP), procedures, and guidance.
          The MRBPB also produces        FAA guidance for IPs recommended for implementation by
       the IMRBPB. The MRBPB participates in international meetings on MRB policy issues
       with other regulatory authorities.      A member of the MRBPB will be designated to
       represent the FAA at scheduled IMRBPB meetings. A governing charter for the MRBPB
          is maintained by the FAA’s AED Standards and Policy Branch.
5/31/24                                                                                    AC 121-22D



  13   INTERNATIONAL MAINTENANCE REVIEW BOARD POLICY BOARD
          (IMRBPB). The IMRBPB develops policies, procedures, and guidance for the use of
       personnel operating under the purview of various MRBs. The IMRBPB provides a
       process that promotes harmonization with other regulatory authorities throughout the
       world and advocates the standardization of MRB policy and procedures. The IMRBPB
          also provides a structured forum for discussions leading to the development of national
          and international policy regarding all MRB activities.


13.1   Membership. The IMRBPB is made up of members from regulatory authorities who
       have signed the IMRBPB charter.


13.2   Meeting Frequency. The IMRBPB convenes once a year. Industry/regulatory
          discussions are a portion of the meeting. The meeting venue will normally rotate among
       the IMRBPB members. A4A and the Maintenance Programs Industry Group (MPIG)
       under the A4A Airworthiness Committee represent the industry at the IMRBPB meeting.


13.3   Functions. The IMRBPB maintains an IP list with associated documents, such as
       meeting minutes, action item lists, substantiation documents, and associated IMRBPB
       policy decisions.


13.4   International MRB/MTB Process Standard (IMPS). The IMPS is maintained by the
          IMRBPB on the EASA website and forms the basis for the MRB/MTB process. The
          IMPS is revised once every 3 years by the IMRBPB. The basis for the revision is
          generally a result of the IMRBPB IP process.


  14      OEM/TCH RECOMMENDED MAINTENANCE PROCEDURES. OEM/TCHs of
          aircraft that are less than 12,500 pounds (Ibs) or helicopters that are to be type certificated
          in the normal category and are less than 7,000 Ibs may develop their scheduled
       maintenance tasking/interval requirements in accordance with OEM/TCH internal
       processes. The OEM/TCH should meet the requirements of Order 8110.54, in addition to
       the criteria below. OEM/TCHs for these aircraft have the option of using the MRB
       process or MTB process.


14.1   Where the United States is the State of Design. The FAA is the primary type
          certification authority. The OEM/TCH that is applying for a TC for a new or derivative
          aircraft, for which this paragraph is applicable, may develop its scheduled maintenance
       requirements in accordance with a recommended maintenance procedure. The AED will
          invite other regulatory authorities, in coordination with the OEM/TCH, to discuss the
       process by which the scheduled maintenance requirements will be developed, and how
       those regulatory authorities may accept that process.


14.2   Where the United States is Not the State of Design. A foreign applicant who is
          applying for an FAA TC for a new or derivative aircraft for which this paragraph is
          applicable will invite the AED to discuss the process by which the scheduled
       maintenance requirements will be developed and how the           FAA may accept that process.


14.3   Audit of the Completed Analytical Process. All OEM/TCHs should maintain records of
       the analysis used to develop their scheduled maintenance requirements. These records
5/31/24                                                                                  AC 121-22D



          should be kept in such a manner that the FAA may readily audit the analytical process
          and any subsequent analytical processes that may lead to an amendment of the minimum
          scheduled maintenance tasking/interval requirements.

 14.4    Validation of the Associated Maintenance Procedures. The OEM/TCH should develop
          internal instructions and guidelines to enable the validation of all maintenance procedures
         written to support scheduled maintenance tasks; the OEM/TCH should then validate
         those maintenance procedures. The objective of the validation is to ensure that it is
         possible to perform the procedure and that the procedure meets the intent of the
          scheduled maintenance requirement. Where and when requested by the FAA, the
          OEM/TCH should make available a completed aircraft and the necessary qualified
         maintenance personnel to demonstrate to the FAA that any particular maintenance
         procedure can be adequately performed and that the procedure meets the intent of the
          scheduled maintenance task.


 14.5     Scheduled Maintenance Requirements Review and Approval. The ICA, as published
         by the OEM/TCH, should contain a statement that the scheduled maintenance
         requirements and their associated procedures have been reviewed and approved for use
         by operators. The ICA should identify any limitations applicable when implementing the
         requirements.


14.5.1    Scheduled Maintenance Requirements Publication. The OEM/TCH should publish the
          scheduled maintenance requirements as part of the aircraft’s ICA. It is the responsibility
          of the OEM/TCH to issue amendments to the ICA, as required.


14.5.2    Scheduled Maintenance Requirements as a Dynamic Document. Before FAA approval of
         the scheduled maintenance requirements as part of the aircraft’s OEM/TCH process, the
          OEM/TCH should develop an auditable system for continuing analysis of all tasks
          included within the maintenance requirements. As part of the continuing analysis system,
         the OEM/TCH should address the following:


          1.   A system for acquiring, from operators, reports related to the adequacy of tasks,
               failures, failure frequencies, and the consequences of each failure.

         2.    An age exploration system for the continuous evaluation of age condition information
               for the substantiation of current task maintenance intervals and for the adjustment of
               task maintenance intervals.

          3.   A system for controlling the addition of new scheduled tasks to ensure that they are
               applicable and effective.

         4.    A system for the periodic evaluation of all tasks in the program to eliminate those that
               are no longer applicable and effective.

          5.   A system for evaluating unanticipated problems and determining the appropriate
               action.


   15    FLIGHTCREWS ACCOMPLISHING MAINTENANCE. Title 14 CFR defines
         people authorized to accomplish maintenance. Flightcrews may not perform any task that
          is used to fulfill MRBR/MTBR tasking requirements.
5/31/24                                                                                  AC 121-22D



15.1      Private Pilots. Under part 1, § 1.1, the definition of maintenance includes the inspection,
          overhaul, repair, preservation, or replacement of parts, but excludes preventive
       maintenance. Flightcrews are not permitted to accomplish any maintenance accomplished
          outside the scope of preventive maintenance as defined in part 43 appendix A,
       paragraph (c). Part 43, § 43.7(f) states, “A person holding at least a private pilot
          certificate may approve an aircraft for return to service after performing preventive
       maintenance under the provisions of § 43.3(g).”


15.2   Air Carrier/Commercial Operator Pilots. Air carrier/commercial operator pilots are
       not allowed to accomplish maintenance/preventive maintenance tasks without an
          exemption to perform those tasks. The only exception to this rule is rotorcraft under
          § 43.3(h).


  16   AC FEEDBACK FORM. For your convenience, the AC Feedback Form is the last page
          of this AC. Note any deficiencies found, clarifications needed, or suggested
          improvements regarding the contents of this AC on the Feedback Form.




Hugh Thomas for
Lawrence Fields
Executive Director, Flight Standards Service
                                Advisory Circular Feedback Form


If you find an error in this AC, have recommendations for improving it, or have suggestions for
new items/subjects to be added, you may let us know by contacting the Aircraft Evaluation
Division at 9-AVS-AFS-100@faa.gov or the Flight Standards Directives Management Officer
at 9-AWA-AFB-120-Directives@faa.gov.


Subject: AC 121-22D, Maintenance Review Boards, Maintenance Type Boards, and Original
Equipment Manufacturer/Type Certificate Holder Recommended Maintenance Procedures


Date:


Please check all appropriate line items:


        An error (procedural or typographical) has been noted in paragraph
        on page



        Recommend paragraph                       on page               be changed as follows:




        In a future change to this AC, please cover the following subject:
        (Briefly describe what you want added.)




        Other comments:




        I would like to discuss the above. Please contact me.



Submitted by:                                                   Date:
