Q                                                 Advisory
US. Department                                         ca

of treponton
Federal Aviation
Administration
                                                  Circular

Subject:     PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE              Date: 10/28/83                ACNo; 43-124
                                                 Initiated by;   AWS-340       Change:




1.   PURPOSE.      This advisory circular (AC) provides information concerning
preventive maintenance, who may perform it, the standards of performance
applicable to it, authority for approving aircraft for return to service, and
the applicable recording requirements.  This AC also clarifies those areas most
frequently misunderstood in the past, and explains the recent changes in the
rules concerning preventive maintenance.

2.   CANCELLATION,      AC 43-12, Preventive Maintenance, dated July 16,           1976,   is
canceled.


3.   RELATED FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS (FAR).              Part 1, Definitions and
Abbreviations, Section 1.1;         Part 43, Maintenance, Preventive Maintenance,
Rebuilding, and Alteration; Part 61, Certification: Pilots and Flight
Instructors;       and Part   145, Repair Stations.


4,   PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE,


     a.    The holders of mechanic and repairman certificates, persons working
under the supervision of these mechanics and repairmen, repair stations
certificated under Part 145, and air carriers certificated under Parts 121, 127,
and 135, are authorized to perform preventive maintenance.                These persons are
also authorized to perform other maintenance.               Therefore,   it is of little
consequence to them how a particular function is classified,               since they are
authorized to perform the function as either preventive maintenance or as other
maintenance.        Further, the procedures used in approving for return to service
and recording are identical.         This AC will, therefore, consider preventive
maintenance from the owners/operators point of view.

     b.    FAR Part 1, Section 1.1, defines preventive maintenance as", 2.
simple or minor preservation operations and the replacement of small standard
parts not involving complex assembly operations."

         (1)  FAR Part 43, Appendix A, paragraph (c) contains the list of those
functions determined by the FAA to meet this definition.  If a function does not
appear in this list, it is not preventive maintenance.               Further, because of
differences in aircraft, a function may be preventive maintenance on oe
aircraft and not on another. To provide for this, paragraph (c) contains the
limitation,      “provided it does not involve complex assembly operations" on the
aircraft involved.  Owners and pilots mist use good judgment in determining that
a specific function may appropriately be classified as preventive maintenance.
                                                                                 10/28/83
 AC 43-12A




            (2)   A Pilot may not perform preventive maintenance on aircraft used
under Parts 121,     127, or 135,   even when the pilot owns the aircraft.


    c.  Persons authorized to perform preventive maintenance.  In addition to
those persons listed in paragraph 4a of this AC, Section 43.3(g) authorizes the
holder of a pilot certificate issued under Part 61 to perform preventive
maintenance.  Section 43.7 limits the privilege to persons holding at least a
private pilot certificate and Section 43.5 prohibits operation of the aircraft
unless approved for return to service,        Further, pilots may only approve for
return to service preventive maintenance which they themselves have
accomplished.


      a.   Applicable performance standards.

           (1)    FAR 43,13 requires preventive maintenance to be done using
methods, techniques, and practices acceptable to the Administrator. These are
normally set forth in the manufacturer's maintenance manuals; however, some may
be found in AC's published by the FAA,

            (2)   FAR 43.13 requires the use of the tools, equipment, and test
apparatus necessary to assure completion of       the work   in accordance with accepted
industry practices.      This means that the proper tools and test apparatus must be
used.  Normally these are listed as part of any FAA-approved manufacturer's
maintenance literature.


            (3)   FAR 43.13 also requires that any special equipment recommended by
the manufacturer or its equivalent must be used in a manner acceptable to the
Administrator.     This provision is more directly applicable to maintenance than
preventive maintenance.  However, it may come into play.         Therefore, owners and
pilots should be aware of it.

        (4)   Additionally, Section 43.13 requires that the work performed and
the materials used are to be such as to ensure that, when the work is finished,
the item worked on is at least equal to its original condition.  Caution must be
exercised because some functions which appear to be simple tasks may, in fact,
be quite complicated.  Care should be taken to ensure that the manufacturer's
instructions are understood, the function is within the individual's capability,
within the definition of preventive maintenance, and that it is listed in
paragraph (c) of Appendix A of Part 43.

     e. Recording preventive maintenance. Preventive maintenance must be
recorded in accordance with Section 43.9 of FAR Part 43. This is done by
entering in the maintenance record, of the item worked on, the following:

          (1)  "A description (or reference to data acceptable to the
Administrator) of the work performed."  This should indicate what was
done and how it was done.  This is normally quite simple for preventive
maintenance; however, if the description is extensive, reference to documents
containing that description is acceptable.  These may be manufacturer's




  5                                                                      Par
                                                                           4
    10/28/83                                                                     aC 43-12A



    manuals, AC's, or other documents or references containing data acceptable to
    the Administrator.           If documents other than types which are in common use are
    referenced, the document should be made a part of the maintenance record, as
    required by Section 43.9(a)(1).


                 (2)     "The date of completion of the work performed.”       This is self
    explanatory and is the date on which the entry is made, as required by Section
    43.9(a)(2).

                 (3)    The kind of airman certificate exercised.         When preventive
    maintenance is performed as authorized in Section 43.3(q), the certificate may
    be indicated in any manner which would be clear to the reader. For example: PP,
    CP, or ATP might be used to indicate private, commercial, or airline transport
    pilot, respectively.          The certificate number
                                                      is that number displayed on the
    certificate being exercised. Affixing a signature to the entry, which describes
    the work accomplished, constitutes approval for return to service, as required
    by Section 43.9(a)(4).


         NOTE:   Since owners/pilots are not authorized to approve work
         accomplished by others, Section 43.9(a)(3) is not applicable when
         preventive maintenance is performed by the holder of a pilot's
         certificate.   The holder of the pilot's certificate doing the work
         is the only person who can sign the approval for return to service.


        f.   The changes to Section 43.9 which require preventive maintenance to be
    recorded became effective October 15, 1982 (Amendment 43-23, 47 FR 41076;
    September 16, 1982).  On this same date, the list of items considered to be
    preventive maintenance in REL A of Part 43 was expanded.       Two of the items
    warrant discussion,©

            (1)  Item 25 (Part 43, Appendix A, paragraph (c)).  This item deals with
    the assembly of gliders and has been on the list of preventive maintenance for
    some time.     The new recording requirements, however, significantly affects this
    item,  The recording requirements are intended to provide continuity in the
    Maintenance record and to ensure that the person performing preventive
    maintenance assumes responsibility for the work performed.  An entry for the
    assembly after required inspection ensures this assumption of responsibility.
    Repeated entries are required each time a person assembles the aircraft for
-   Operation. The assembly must be recorded and the aircraft approved for return
    to service in accordance with Section 43.9 by a person authorized in
    Section 43.7.

             (2)       Item 28    (Part 43, Appendix A, paragraph (c)).    This item deals with
    the installation of balloon baskets and burners specifically designed for quick
    removal and installation.  Such disassembly and assembly is necessary to
    facilitate transporting the balloon either to the launch site or after a flight
    is terminated.       The assembly operation is preventive maintenance and subject to
    the provisions of Sections 43.3, 43.7, and 43.9. As required by Section 43.1(b),
    entries are required for assembly operations on all balloons except those
    certificated in the experimental category which have not been previously
    certificated in another category.




     Par 4                                                                            3
AC 43-12A                                                                   10/28/83



    g-  Items 6 and 23 (Part 43, Appendix A, paragraph (c)).  These items
permit the draining and reservicing of oil, and the removal, cleaning and
reinstallation of oil screens, filters, and strainers in an aircraft oil
system to be done as preventive maintenance, and are subject to the provisions
of Sections 43.13(a) and (b).




 Oboe
Joseph A.   Pontecorvo
Acting Director of Airworthiness




  4                                                               Par 4
